FOCUS #532: PricingCategory update - Classify commitment discount purchase records as Standard instead of Committed (#533)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/columns/pricingcategory.md

* PricingCategory MUST NOT be null when [ChargeClass](#chargeclass) is not "Correction" and [ChargeCategory](#chargecategory) is "Usage" or "Purchase", MUST be null when ChargeCategory is "Tax", and MAY be null for all other combinations of ChargeClass and ChargeCategory.
* PricingCategory MUST be one of the allowed values.
* PricingCategory MUST be "Standard" when pricing is predetermined at the agreed upon rate for the [billing account](#glossary:billing-account).

> * PricingCategory MUST be "Committed" when the charge is subject to an existing *commitment discount* and is not the purchase of a *commitment discount*.

Author: ```suggestion
* PricingCategory MUST be "Committed" when the charge is subject to an existing *commitment discount* and is not the purchase of the *commitment discount*.
```

referring to the specific commitment discount that the charge is subject to

> * PricingCategory MUST be "Committed" when [CommitmentDiscountId](#commitmentdiscountid) is not null, except when ChargeCategory is "Purchase" and the [ResourceId](#resourceid) matches the CommitmentDiscountId.

Author: option B: 

```suggestion
 * PricingCategory MUST be "Committed" when [CommitmentDiscountId](#commitmentdiscountid) is not null, except when ChargeCategory is "Purchase" and the [ResourceId](#resourceid) matches the CommitmentDiscountId, representing a charge related to the purchase of that commitment discount.
```

Reviewer: Option C: Leave this open for purchase commitments (e.g., consulting hours) and remove the relationship with the CommitmentDiscountId. This is the same language in CommitmentDiscountId without binding us to that column.
```suggestion
* PricingCategory MUST be "Committed" when the charge is related to a *commitment discount*.
```

Author: #### PricingCategory values:

> **Standard:** Charges priced at the agreed upon rate for the billing account, including negotiated discounts. This includes any flat rate and volume/tiered pricing but does not include dynamic or commitment discount pricing.
>
> **Committed:** Charges with reduced prices due to a commitment discount specified by the Commitment Discount ID.

#### DiscountHandling requirement:

> The CommitmentDiscountId and ResourceId MUST be set to the ID assigned to the *commitment discount*. ChargeCategory MUST be set to "Purchase" on rows that represent a purchase of a *commitment discount*.

#### Question:

A purchase of a commitment is related to a commitment discount, but should it be it classified as "Committed" (and therefore covered by that particular commitment) or as "Standard"?

#### Simplified dataset

| Version   | ChargeDescription | ChargeCategory | Pricing<br>Category | Commitment<br>DiscountId | ResourceId |
|-----------|-------------------|----------------|-----------------|-----------------------|------------|
| Current & Option C   | CD-ID-1 purchase  | Purchase       | Committed       | CD-ID-1               | CD-ID-1    |
| Options A & B | CD-ID-1 purchase  | Purchase       | Standard        | CD-ID-1               | CD-ID-1    |

Reviewer: > A purchase of a commitment is related to a commitment discount
Good point. How about...
```suggestion
* PricingCategory MUST be "Committed" when the charge is subject to an existing *commitment discount* and is not the purchase of a *commitment discount*.
```

Author: Moving forward with @flanakin's suggestion. Although I usually prefer precision in normative paragraphs (almost like instructions for those implementing validators, whenever applicable) in this case, it’s not just about readability but also about safety. 
I’d suggest making a small adjustment by replacing "a" with "the" to clarify that we are specifically referring to the purchase of that particular commitment discount.

> * PricingCategory MUST be "Committed" when [CommitmentDiscountId](#commitmentdiscountid) is not null, except when ChargeCategory is "Purchase" and the [ResourceId](#resourceid) matches the CommitmentDiscountId.

Reviewer 2: Option D?
```suggestion
* PricingCategory MUST be "Committed" when [CommitmentDiscountId](#commitmentdiscountid) is not null and ChargeCategory is "Usage".
```

Author: Are we absolutely certain that Commitment discounts, including any future ones, cannot be applied to purchase-related records?

Reviewer 2: Yes, 💯. A commitment discount's reduction only applies to usage rows. Any additional reduction to the purchase is a negotiated discount.

Reviewer: I'm not sure that's a fair assumption. That's just how it works today for the major cloud providers. We don't know if anyone's using commitment discounts for purchases. I don't think we should limit commitment discounts to usage only. As an example, a domain registrar may offer commitment discounts for organizations who purchase 1,000 domains, which would be a bulk of purchases and not usage. These are valid discounts for committing to a specific quantity of purchases. We should support that.

Reviewer 2: I'm fine with the proposed solution as is, so we can resolve this comment.
